# Differential and difference equation representation.

Linear constant coefficient differential equation(Cotinuous)

$$
\begin{align*}
\sum^N_{k=0}a_x\frac{d^k}{dt^k}y(t)=\sum^M_{k=0}b_k\frac{d^k}{dt^k}x(t)
\end{align*}
$$

Linear constant coefficient difference equation (Discrete)

$$
\begin{align*}
\sum^N_{k=0}a_xy[n-k]=\sum^M_{k=0}b_kx[n-k]
\end{align*}
$$

$M$, $N$ here are not only order of the differential equation, but also the number of memory devices in the system.


$$
y[n]-\rho y[n-1]=x[n]
$$
## Solution
The complete solution can be express as

$$ y(t) = y_h(t) + y_p(t) $$

Where $y_h(t)$ is the homogeneous solution, $y_p(t)$ is the particular solution.

### Homogeneous solution
The solution of the homogeneous equation is the solution of the differential equation when the input is zero.

#### Continuous

$$
\begin{align*}
\sum^N_{k=0}a_x\frac{d^k}{dt^k}y(t)&=0 \\
\end{align*}
$$

We can then assume the solution of the form

$$
y^{(h)}(t)=\sum^N_{i=1}C_ie^{r_it}
$$

in other words

$$
y^{(h)}(t)=C_1e^{r_1t}+C_2e^{r_2t}+\cdots+C_Ne^{r_Nt}
$$

We shall find the $r_i$ by solving the characteristic equation
> maybe adding solving characteristic equation here

Then we can substitute the assumed solution into the original equations

#### Discrete

$$
\begin{align*}
\sum^N_{k=0}a_xy[n-k]&=0 \\
\end{align*}
$$

We can then assume the solution of the form

$$
y^{(h)}[n]=\sum^N_{i=1}C_ir^n
$$

in other words

$$
y^{(h)}[n]=C_1r_1^n+C_2r_2^n+\cdots+C_Nr_N^n
$$

We shall find the $r_i$ by solving the characteristic equation
> maybe adding solving characteristic equation here


#### Example

$$ y[n]-\rho y[n-1]=0 $$

The characteristic equation is $y^{(h)}[n]-\rho y^{(h)}[n-1]=0$  


> =====BELOW NEEDS REVIEW AFTER THE 1017 VIDEO=====
### Particular solution
The particular solution is the solution of the differential equation when the input is not zero. 
To find $y_p(t)$, we can first assume the form of the solution.

Let say $y[n]-\rho y[n-1]=x[n]$ if the input is $x[n]=(\frac{1}{2})^n$

Then we assume $y^{(p)}[n]=c(\frac{1}{2})^n$
  
  Then we can substitute the assumed solution into the original equations
  
  $$
  \begin{align*}
  y^{(p)}[n]-\rho y^{(p)}[n-1]&=x[n] \\
  c(\frac{1}{2})^n-\rho c(\frac{1}{2})^{n-1}&=(\frac{1}{2})^n \\
  c(\frac{1}{2})^n-\rho c(\frac{1}{2})^{n-1}&=(\frac{1}{2})^n \\
  c-\rho c(\frac{1}{2})^{-1}&=1 \\
  c-\frac{\rho}{2}c&=1 \\
  c(1-\frac{\rho}{2})&=1 \\
  c&=\frac{1}{1-\frac{\rho}{2}} \\
  c&=\frac{2}{2-\rho} \\
  \end{align*}
  $$
> Is this correct ?

  When $y^{(p)} = y^{(h)}$ in you assumption, you *MUST* multiply $n$ to the assumed solution to find the particular solution. 

There are some commonly Used input table 
| Input | Particular solution |
|-------------|----------------------|
| $e^{at}$             | $Ae^{at}$           
| $sin(\omega t)$      | $Acos(\omega t) + Bsin(\omega t)$ |
| $cos(\omega t)$      | $Acos(\omega t) + Bsin(\omega t)$ |
| $t^n$              | $A_nt^n + A_{n-1}t^{n-1} + \cdots + A_1t + A_0$ |
| $e^{at}sin(\omega t)$ | $e^{at}(Acos(\omega t) + Bsin(\omega t))$ |
| $e^{at}cos(\omega t)$ | $e^{at}(Acos(\omega t) + Bsin(\omega t))$ |


# System of Differential Equation

We express output of a system:

$$
y = y^{(n)} + y^{(f)}
$$
  
  Where $y^{(n)}$ is the natural response, $y^{(f)}$ is the forced response.

## Natural Response
The natural response is the response of the system when the input is zero.

In other words, only the initial conditions (Remaining enenrgy If this is some sort of RLC circuit) are affecting the output.


Basically it is the homogeneous solution with all the $C$ solved by plugging in the initial conditions.

# Forced Response
First Find the complete solution of the system.
Then we set initial conditions to zero. In discrete we can describe that as $y[-1] = 0$









