# System - Differential Equation

## Solution
The complete solution can be express as

$$ y(t) = y_h(t) + y_p(t) $$  
Where $y_h(t)$ is the homogeneous solution, $y_p(t)$ is the particular solution.

### Homogeneous solution
The solution of the homogeneous equation is the solution of the differential equation when the input is zero.

#### Example

$$ y[n]-\rho y[n-1]=0 $$
The characteristic equation is $y^{(h)}[n]-\rho y^{(h)}[n-1]=0$  

> Why we assume $r^n$ as homogeneous solution?
> 


### Particular solution
The particular solution is the solution of the differential equation when the input is not zero. 
To find $y_p(t)$, we can first assume the form of the solution.

Let say $y[n]-\rho y[n-1]=x[n]$ if the input is $x[n]=(\frac{1}{2})^n$

Then we assume $y^{(p)}[n]=c(\frac{1}{2})^n$
  
  Then we can substitute the assumed solution into the original equations
  $$
  \begin{align*}
  y^{(p)}[n]-\rho y^{(p)}[n-1]&=x[n] \\
  c(\frac{1}{2})^n-\rho c(\frac{1}{2})^{n-1}&=(\frac{1}{2})^n \\
  c(\frac{1}{2})^n-\rho c(\frac{1}{2})^{n-1}&=(\frac{1}{2})^n \\
  c-\rho c(\frac{1}{2})^{-1}&=1 \\
  c-\frac{\rho}{2}c&=1 \\
  c(1-\frac{\rho}{2})&=1 \\
  c&=\frac{1}{1-\frac{\rho}{2}} \\
  c&=\frac{2}{2-\rho} \\
  \end{align*}
  $$


  When $y^{(p)} = y^{(h)}$ in you assumption, you *MUST* multiply $n$ to the assumed solution to find the particular solution. 




There are some commonly Used input table 
| Input | Particular solution |
|-------|----------------------|
| $e^{at}$ | $Ae^{at}$ |
| $sin(\omega t)$ | $Acos(\omega t) + Bsin(\omega t)$ |
| $cos(\omega t)$ | $Acos(\omega t) + Bsin(\omega t)$ |
| $t^n$ | $A_nt^n + A_{n-1}t^{n-1} + \cdots + A_1t + A_0$ |
| $e^{at}sin(\omega t)$ | $e^{at}(Acos(\omega t) + Bsin(\omega t))$ |
| $e^{at}cos(\omega t)$ | $e^{at}(Acos(\omega t) + Bsin(\omega t))$ |


# System of Differential Equation

We express output of a system:

$$
y = y^{(n)} + y^{(f)}
$$
  
  Where $y^{(n)}$ is the natural response, $y^{(f)}$ is the forced response.

## Natural Response
The natural response is the response of the system when the input is zero.

In other words, only the initial conditions (Remaining enenrgy If this is some sort of RLC circuit) are affecting the output.


Basically it is the homogeneous solution with all the $C$ solved by plugging in the initial conditions.

# Forced Response
First Find the complete solution of the system.
Then we set initial conditions to zero. In discrete we can describe that as $y[-1] = 0$









