# Periodic signals: Fourier series representation

We want to representing a periodic signal $\hat{x}(t)$in a weighted superposition of base signal, complex sinusoids.

In order to achieve the same period of the $\hat{x}(t)$ we should frequency of each sinusoid be an integer multiple of $\hat{x}(t)$'s fundamental freq. which is $k\Omega_0$ where k means the k-th harmonic and $\Omega_0$ is the fundamental freq.

If a discrete signal $x[n]$ have a fundamental period $N$, then we can represent it as (called DTFS):

 $$\hat{x}[n] = \sum_k A[k]e^{jk\Omega_0n} $$

- Where $A[k]$ is the weight of k-th harmonic
- $e^{jk\Omega_0n}$ is the base signal which we can superposition it to get other periodic signals.
- $\Omega_0 = 2\pi/N$ is the fundamental frequency of the signal.

If a continuous signal $x(t)$ have a fundamental period $T$, then we can represent it as (called FS):

 $$\hat{x}(t) = \sum_k A[k] e^{jk\omega_0t} $$

- Where $A[k]$ is the weight of k-th harmonic
- $e^{jk\omega_0t}$ is the base signal which we can superposition it to get other periodic signals.
- $\omega_0 = 2\pi/T$ is the fundamental frequency of the signal.

# Periodic functions

Recap:

1. **Continuous-time periodic signals**: $x(t) = x(t + T_0)$
2. **Continuous-time aperiodic signals**: $x(t) \neq x(t + T_0)$
3. **Discrete-time periodic signals**: $x[n] = x[n + N]$
4. **Discrete-time aperiodic signals**: $x[n] \neq x[n + N]$

> Here $T_0$ and $N$ are the fundamental period of the signal.

Let define a discrete signal :

$$e^{jk\Omega_0n}$$

- where $e^{j(...)}$ is complex exponential, is part of signal.
- $\Omega_0$ is the fundamental frequency of the signal.
- $k$ is an integer, harmonic number, $k$-th harmonic.
- $n$ is the time index.
Here $k\Omega_0$ basically means the frequency of the signal.

While continuous signal is defined as:

$$ e^{jk\omega_0t} $$

- where $\omega_0$ is the fundamental frequency of the signal.
- $k$ is an integer, harmonic number, $k$-th harmonic.
- $t$ is the time index.

And we can view some example:
- $f[n]=e^{j\Omega_0n}$, with $N=2\pi/\Omega_0$ should called as periodic time function.
- $f[k]=e^{j2\Omega_0n}$, with $N=\pi/\Omega_0$ should called as periodic frequency function.
- $f(t)=e^{j\omega_0t}$, with $T=2\pi/\omega_0$ should called as periodic time function.
- $f[k]=e^{j2\omega_0t}$, without knowing $N$, we can't say it is periodic and should called as aperiodic frequency function.

Without knowing N:

$$\begin{align}
f[k+N] &= e^{j(k+N)\omega_0t} \\
&= e^{jk\omega_0t}e^{jN\omega_0t} \\
\end{align}$$

Here we don't know whether $e^{jN\omega_0t}$ is equal to 1 or not. Therefore we can't say its periodic.

## Finding the weight $A[k]$
Approximation of $x[n]$ and $x(t)$ by finding $A[k]$ that plug into $\hat{x}[n]$ and $\hat{x}(t)$.

Mean-square-error (MSE)
for Discrete-time signal:
$MSE$= $\frac{1}{N} \sum_{n=0}^{N-1} |x[n]-\hat{x}[n]|^2$

for Continuous-time signal:
$MSE$= $\frac{1}{T} \int_{0}^{T} |x(t)-\hat{x}(t)|^2 dt$

# Non-Periodic signals

For example:

$f(\Omega) = e^{j\Omega n}$, with fundamental period $N=2\pi$ then we can know its periodic signal.
With $N=2\pi$, $f(\Omega)$ we are no longer can sure whether it is periodic or not.
 >???

For non-periodic signals (for both Time and Frequency domain), we represent it as infinite series of complex sinusoids with different frequencies.

$$ \hat{x}(t)=\frac{1}{2\pi}\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}X(j\omega)e^{j\omega t}d\omega $$

Here $\frac{X(j\omega)}{2\pi}$ is the weight of the frequency $\omega$.

But let say there is a $f[n] = e^{j\Omega n}$ its time function is not periodic, but its frequency function is periodic $T=2\pi$.

$$ e^{j(\Omega + T)} = e^{j\Omega n}e^{jTn} = e^{j\Omega n}\text{ if }T=2\pi$$

Then we express it as:

$$ \hat{x}[n] = \frac{1}{2\pi}\int^\pi_\pi X(e^{j\Omega })e^{j\Omega n}$$


$\frac{X(e^{j\Omega })}{2\pi}$ is the weight of the frequency $n\Omega$.

> I think we need more elobrate here. It looks quite weird.